and welcome to this episode of the
selling through partnering skills
podcast where i'm delighted to be joined
by sam dunning
sam is the sales director at webchoice
but more importantly he's a podcast host
at the business growth show
so pressure on me today to get this
right because it's a really good podcast
sam welcome mate hey hey fred good good
to be on mate thanks for having me and i
look forward to jumping into an exciting
podcast with yourself
and take notes on what i'd like as a
host
make notes yourself do not do what fred
did that it was rubbish
no so
you know the structure of this
particular podcast what we do is we go
through these elements of pq and how
people can apply those in sales or
perhaps more in business if you like i
know that's what you you focus on
and particularly with you your company's
probably more involved in marketing than
sales but but you have to sell and
you've interviewed loads of folk that uh
are expert in this and and and you have
your own opinions i i've
been on the receiving end of a couple of
those which has been quite fun um
so let's start let's start with the pq
element of trust and what are your
thoughts on how people or sales people
in particular can build that and use
that
yeah yeah yeah so trust um so i suppose
what comes to mind straight away when it
comes to sales is i'm a big believer in
that discovery is probably one of the
most important parts of the sales
process
so
when it comes to trust
building it is
is so important right so a lot of people
say as a sales person you need to be
liked i used to think that
then when i realized trust was about 100
times more important i stopped believing
that um
like being liked is cool being trusted
is way better and you're not necessarily
going to win a deal from someone that
likes you
if they trust you with your their
business that to fix their problems to
solve their issues to make them more
revenue to save them more time then
they're more likely to do business with
you so when it comes to discovery
discovery is a big thing for me mainly
because i'm lazy and we get a lot of our
leads inbound whether that's through our
own website through our marketing
through seo through our paid ads through
linkedin we're fortunate that i don't
have to sweat my ass off cold calling
anymore so i get to run a lot of
discovery calls most days with prospects
um so one of the best ways that i've
found to build trust pretty fast is
using an upfront contract
so
essentially when you're speaking to a
prospect not making them feel like
you're 100 able to help them
because in truth
many people that you speak to whether
they're an inbound lead an outbound lead
whatever
you're not always going to have the
solution your your product your service
isn't always going to be the best fit
right so
in my case just being perfectly clear
that
look hey john i'm really looking forward
to chatting you today i want to ask you
some questions about kind of the
problems that you've mentioned or the
service you need and i'm sure you can
have some questions for us too
but
at any stage if you feel that the
solution or what i'm talking about isn't
a great fit are you okay to tell me so
and they'll always say yes no problem
and likewise john if i feel anywhere
along the way at the journey that i'm
not the best fit or my solution is not
the best fit for you do you mind if i
say look i don't think i'm the best
match but i'll try and point you to a
trusted partner that i know that can
probably help you out how does that
sound
um now you can usually say yes great
then you say look if if neither of us
kind of
say any reason why we can't do business
is it okay if we spend a couple minutes
at the end of today's half hour 40
minute call discussing what might be a
relevant next step and the amount of
people that after this call in fact
someone i did a deal with yesterday
literally said sam you're the only one
who kind of took the time to explain
that you might not be the best fit and
after we kind of went through everything
in detail we realized we were so really
appreciated appreciate the transparency
rather than just trying to ram a product
down my neck
i i absolutely love that yeah it's
really cool i don't know what i like so
much about it is you said well it works
yeah it take that take the hassle off of
trying to make best friends forever with
people
actually you probably will like you
because as a result of because of the
way that you've done that but certainly
the trust element and how you get the
conversation running
it's just really cool
really good
i mean
oh that's taking us straight into the
next part because you you're already
talking win-win
you're already saying this is what we're
looking for there's got to be mutual
benefit
in this
so
using that as your launch pad and going
into discovery mode
talk to me a little bit more about you
know how you're doing that and how that
is
looking for this win-win outcome
yeah so do you mean in terms of kind of
the questions we ask or
yeah i mean how how would that typically
go because it sounds like you've really
got this this this sales call or
discovery part of the sales call nailed
down we want to know more about this
it is my favorite part of the sales
process because i mean typically what
we're doing we have a detailed discovery
called decide if we're a good fit and if
we are we might do a presentation or we
might do a paid audit or we might might
do some kind of proposal whatever that
next step is depending as within all of
us each project each solution is going
to be a bit different
but usually we want to know once we've
kind of agreed
agreed those
terms on the upfront contract um side of
things then we'd we'd really
one of my favorite questions depending
on the type of lead is kind of
what's first of all what's actually
prompted you to reach out to us like for
example why didn't you go if you know
other companies in your sector why
didn't you reach out to x or why didn't
you reach out to y company
and then they might just say look
because i saw you on linkedin or
you you called me or i saw your ad and
then if it wasn't inboundly then i'll
always say well that's great i see ads
pop up all the time what was it
specifically about our offer that
prompted you to take the time to give us
a call or fill out our inquiry form
and then they'll give you a bit more
detail so in our case they might say
that i really like some of your work or
i really like this review and it just
gives you a little golden nugget that
might come up um as used later in the
sales process perhaps when you're doing
a picture or your demo whatever it may
be
um
and then
there's a bunch of things that you need
to kind of cover when you're doing
discovery so of course you need to kind
of say look
what is what talk about kind of
why have you reached out to us today or
why are we having this conversation
take the time to learn about their
business
if it is a product or service that
you're offering you want to dive into
deep deep about learning how their
business operates
kind of the product or service they're
offering and things like the average
order values around that so you can
understand even if your product or
service is going to make sense for them
and even taking the time to understand
profit margins if they are doing that
kind of stuff
um
and then
a crucial thing is understanding the
trigger event
so once you've understand took the time
to understand what they do how they do
it um
what you want to ask why they want to do
that now so
look john what's what's made you want to
do this now why not three months ago why
not six months in the future why do we
have to have this conversation now and
that's quite a useful point so you can
actually
scale the urgency of their need
because some people might just say oh i
was just considering my options
i was just thinking about this and that
should usually
send alarm bells because you can see
that there's no real urgency whereas if
they say look
let's say you're offering some kind of
sas
software as a service solution maybe
you're offering like a crm product
whatever and they just say our rcm is
really frustrating because we have to
manually trans
import everything from gmail for every
new contact that comes in or maybe they
say look our head of crms just left us
in the lurch and we're really stuck and
that's great then you can just start
digging right one of the best parts
about discovery is just digging deeper
then you can ask things like well why is
that an issue and they might say well
we're we're five grand down because our
sales team are having to spend days
kind of manually inputting all this data
and you know why is that an issue
with 10k already below our target for
the month and if we do this again for
three months then our chief revenue
office is gonna be on my back and
then basically a big part of discovery
is to keep digging until you get to the
the biggest part of the problem so
working out that what we call a trigger
event of why they need to do it now
understanding the importance of why they
have to do it
and
kind of going along the process if
you've kind of determined this is
something you can help them out with
understanding things like their timeline
when do they want to get the rest
solution in place
um understanding things like
who's actually involved in the process
so if you've gone through all these
steps and you've kind of realized this
i'm going to fit you realize they've got
a sensible timeline
you've taken the time to understand
things like
budget so have they actually got the
money in place to do business with you
and a lot of people say you shouldn't
bring up money on the first call but i
completely disagree um ultimately if
they don't have the cash to do business
with you you're wasting their time in
yours and so once you've kind of nailed
down a few points and bits and pieces
about their problem
um
and their issues etc
you can do that and what i should have
added is one of my favorite questions to
ask before you get to budget which i
i've missed is
really good if you're offering kind of a
solution that kind of drives results
over time look where do we need to get
to
in say 12 months time for you to say
working with sam working with webchoice
was an excellent move this is a question
i stole from benjamin dennehy works a
treat because then you get people to
actually visualize the future and if
they if they've got a clear answer like
look we want to get x amount of revenue
or i want to get to a position where i
can hire two more staff then you can see
they're serious about it whereas if they
are not too sure and they can't really
give you anything that's a little bit
again alarm bells because they've not
really thought about where
their urgency for the solution they
can't really see the the brighter green
future in 12 months so that that
question can really give you some good
intel and once you've nailed all these
points you can say look based against
fixing problem x getting to this
timeline solving these issues what have
you allocated as a budget towards it um
if they say look i haven't even thought
about a budget when i believe you really
should bring up budget now so in my case
i might say look typically
prospects for these kind of issues spend
between
x and y
can you see yourself falling within that
or is that way off the mark
if they say it's way off the mark
then
you can say well
we should probably end this conversation
now right whereas if they say they might
battle against you and they might
convince you to kind of do business with
them great
whereas they might say
yeah that kind of works then you can
carry on the conversation
and probably wrap up depending on how
long your discovery call is um just by
finding out who else is involved in the
project so
as well as yourself john who else do we
need on the next call or who do we need
to get involved in our second discovery
call or our presentation call or propose
a call depending on the sales process so
those are just a few points i tend to
bring up in discovery i appreciate that
everyone's product or service is going
to be slightly different depending on
what you do and how transactional or how
long a sales cycle you've got
mate master class in consultative
selling
really cool
that's great and i can hear how you
enjoy that so much
i i love that piece i mean maybe it's
just because of a note he get and i love
asking those questions and i like
finding out about other people
but
the mind boggles really that sometimes
some people are so desperate to talk
about themselves and what they do and
all their products and all their
services
they miss out on having all this fun
which is understanding about somebody
else
pretty sad actually i think
i mean on on those initial calls unless
it's unless they've got perhaps
unless they're perhaps at the lower end
of our scale in terms of budget
and i can see that they can be try quite
a transactional
sale then i might start talking about
product at the end of discovery call
because maybe i think that we can do do
business with them quite fast and maybe
they're ready to move fast they've got
us they need something quite simple then
it might otherwise unless they really
push me for it i'll just save it for the
next call and just spend that time
really understanding
what they need if we can help them how
we can fix that problem kind of how
they're fitted on there and who their
decision makers are budget etc and then
we can save the rest for our next
whether that's an audit or a demo call
whatever it may be
and then you can talk far more about
yourself
funnily enough and then this is advice i
give salespeople it's like don't try and
cram everything in deliberately spend
longer talking about them knowing that
you're not going to talk about yourself
just make that little rule and say
this is excellent i actually got quite a
lot that either i need to go away and
think about even if you don't pretend
you do
or i want to do a really good job just
let me prep some stuff
well we need a little bit longer just so
i can explain exactly how we can do this
for you let's set up another
another discussion
so it makes you discover stuff better if
you haven't got the discipline now you
probably have to just put not to carry
on asking stuff because you're finding
out more and more and talk about
people's businesses and i know you
generally are interested in people and
business and the rest of it that's why
your podcast isn't it but
i i guess one of the best words which i
put on
i think there was a post on
daniel disney's page the daily sales
that just said i think it said something
about you need to be energetic to be a
great salesperson something like that um
i i was just saying trust is more
important actually no what i said was
the post was you need to be well trusted
but i said yeah it's a good point but
you also need to be curious you need to
be genuinely curious
as to
kind of why why they've agreed to have a
conversation with you as a salesperson
if they're even qualified to do business
with you if their problem warrants your
solution and then if they've got budget
if they've got timelines they've got
decision making power to do it if you're
not that curious then you're
not necessarily sometimes you will going
to get all the intel you need to
actually get the deal over the line
later in the process
so
having that curiosity is is really
important in my opinion
i think funnily enough i was doing a
podcast this morning i was i was guest
and uh one for my old school and i was
asking some advice to a school leaver i
thought oh my god i can't think back
that far um but i went for it be curious
because it covers all bases doesn't it
it's just for a sales person 100 percent
now i suspect a lot of people leaving
school don't want to go in sales but
just be curious just be interested in
people interesting things
you know you'll do so well and i sort of
said that as a school leader and then i
caught myself and said actually that's
just good advice anyway for anybody
any age you know it doesn't matter i
agree um
cool so let's move on and think about
this another element of pq and
development partnering skills because
you talked about yeah some of you your
deals might be fairly transactional but
it sounds like others are quite involved
and then so this is where this kind of
concept of interdependence
comes into play so that your success is
going to be dictated by their success
and vice versa actually
so how can people again be more aware of
that and kind of use that quite
deliberately in the way that they
approach sales
in terms of
kind of your success being their success
yeah your success is their success yeah
so when we start to embark on a
relationship you know we are going to
start to be kind of linked in together
in the you know if it goes well it's
going to go well for all of us and it
can't be it's to do with the win-win but
it's kind of even more so we've got to
be aware of that interdependence
good point okay so
i guess
pinning it back to sales rather than
account management in terms of kind of
when you win the deal and then perhaps
working together as some reps might be
kind of a's account execs i might do
some account management i guess in terms
of that kind of thing which is going to
be more again in line with kind of deals
with longer sales cycles is agreeing
deliverables
so
a lot of
deals in my past especially i've kind of
fallen through because myself and the
prospective customer hasn't really
agreed on
saying look we need to
we need to agree that we'll have maybe
the project plan by this date we'll have
a timeline in place by this date and the
timeline is going to be look we get
sign off from
maybe the account manager your financial
director by this date we agree that
we're going to start implementation by
this date so this means we need to get
the contract signed by this date and
your your i don't know your um in-house
tech team need to be ready to assist us
by this day so i guess
mutual agreements are really
really strong um and i'm guilty of this
all the time i forget to ask things like
why are timelines important or who else
do we need to kind of get involved in
this so
i guess getting that kind of mutual
action action plan is really good
because then you can bring it up when it
comes to closing out your demo or your
presentation or whatever your kind of
final step is in your sales process you
can say look when on our earlier calls
we agreed that we need to have this this
timeline in place and we need to have
this person ready for implementation and
we need to have delivery ready by this
date otherwise this is going to fall
flat because this so if you've got all
those bits and pieces of the timeline
that you've both agreed on and then you
can bring that up during your pitch your
presentation your demo
then they're going to think well this is
fully thought through and yes i've
already agreed to this so yeah they're
right i need to crack on with this
because we've kind of mutually agreed
the deadlines and why they're important
i'm a big fan of mutual action plans
though i've got to jump in and i just
got to correct the language here because
if tom williams is listening he will
tell me off
yeah he'll be after us you know outcome
enablement plans is what we should be
calling these apparently
okay
and i can't really argue with him
actually because that sounds good it
does what it says in the 10 year what
are we saying well what's the delivery
what is the outcome that you're looking
for we're looking for this okay for that
to happen we've got to do this this this
and this that is what's going to enable
it and this is the plan so i get it we
should be calling them back for enabling
plans
the practical means i don't care what
people call them
i do them though because they make a
massive difference from the customer
point of view
again well i can trust you better
because it looks though you know you're
building your credibility i feel more
comfortable i feel safer
there's a yeah
i think we're missing a big trick if
we're not using these whenever we
possibly can to be honest yeah no i
completely agree
oh yeah so outcome enablement plans i
remember that
yeah he's on a mission tom's great if
he's on a mission so yeah get him on
your podcast get on your podcast
start calling the mutual action plan
a little ago you've been talking to fred
okay so i think you used this word
earlier which was transparency
and that's how i now
refer to one of the elements of pq now
originally steve dent when he put this
stuff together he talked about
self-disclosure and feedback so giving a
bit of information about yourself but
also giving feedback to the customer
so we could define transparency in
different ways but i i like that because
it sits with that original element of pq
so again
how can we do that why should we be
doing that
yeah in terms of being transparent with
prospects with customers transparent
customers probably again i don't mind if
you're talking and your sounds are you
think about pure sales and account
management all those different things
i lump all of this stuff together
because a lot of the guys that would
listen to this are probably full cycle
they'll be looking after the customer
soup to nuts if you like so yeah yep yep
just thinking generically yeah i suppose
there's a few angles to kind of being
transparent is
one we could bring it back to discovery
just to say look um really on in the
sales process making sure that your
customers clear your prospective
customers clear rather that you're not
always going to be the best fit so
laying those cards on the table early
doors helps with building trust helps
with building transparency
and
in terms of later on in the sales
process i guess
not cutting yourself short so i've
certainly made the pa the mistakes of
kind of getting deals over the line just
to kind of hit targets and get cash in
the bank as it were and
get a bigger commission check just so
the customer might for example during
the pitch say look can you sharpen your
pencil on the price or can you do the
timeline in half the time or can you add
xyz features and just saying yes yes yes
to close the deal then you tell your
sales manager or you tell your
implementation team what bloody have you
done
we're literally cutting our nose to spot
our face um
so rather than rather than just trying
to do there and the deal there and then
you might say well look well this is a
this is a new request give me some time
give me a couple hours i'm gonna go back
to the team i'm gonna have a chat
through with them and then i'll come
back to you let's let's perhaps book a
call later this afternoon rather than
just trying to get the deal down there
and then because i've done that many
times um and people will respect if you
respect you for being open with them
um rather than just funny how that's
changed now your role has changed
in some ways you could get worse at it
because you could be always looking at
the numbers and it's like yeah it will
do that would do that that's true that's
true
anthony caldoris talks about future cell
don't future sell and when he said that
right no of course you want to talk
about the future that's what the whole
point of selling but what when you hear
him talk about it he means is like you
said can you do this yeah
do that oh yeah it does all that yeah oh
we could put that developmental saw that
yeah because
they look to get what have you just sold
there that's just a complete new product
yeah would you want the business or not
well no not like that we don't
we don't make any money on it i used to
be terrible at it honestly i i've i've
spoken on many podcasts one of my
favorites
when i first started selling websites
selling digital marketing literally the
i think it was probably the second day i
got past a lead
took it took the call gave gave the
chapper a phone call and um
obviously took down a bit of
requirements was shaking probably at the
time because it was my first ever sales
because i was nervous as anything and
after some time he he basically
explained that he wanted a website that
was pretty much the equivalent of
linkedin so you know
your small standard website nothing too
big and
i took down all the requirements took
down the features and this that and the
other that he needed and um he said look
i've only got a budget 500 pounds is
that okay and i was just saying yes to
everything because i didn't have a clue
so my reaction was just to say yep
that's absolutely fine i ended up
selling this deal being the first ever
call i ever made but probably undersold
the platform by about several million
pounds
[Laughter]
and thankfully we we never had to
deliver it because i think he understood
that i was just at the time didn't have
a clue what i was doing and luckily we
managed to palm him off with a couple
smaller smaller projects so never had to
deal with the law law firms and the the
court
got away with one there but that was
about 10 years ago now
that is so cool it's so funny do you
think i i've heard you talk about it
before but you think about it guys she's
quite it's quite funny but it people do
do
things like that
yeah
okay what about feedback to customers so
the way i often see this is that
sometimes we've got a you know we get
involved and you've been involved in
bigger projects and you're working with
a lot of customers long term and you've
agreed to do certain things and they're
going to have to do some stuff for it to
work you're doing your stuff yeah they
don't keep up their their side
of the bargain or they're not doing
their work that is needed for this to
achieve
giving feedback to them and saying hey
look you know you're you're not doing
what you said you would do you can't
expect these results if you're not doing
this
yeah how about doing that because i know
that some salespeople found really
difficult it's always out of the
customer oh yeah what's your thinking
around that
certainly when i again i when i first
started in sales i thought you had to be
kind of fully polite to customers which
there's no reason why you shouldn't be
polite but
you've also got to get to the point and
people will respect you for for doing
that or most will and if they don't then
are they really someone you want to be
doing business with for the long term
um
so yeah setting i suppose if you're
going to be doing an ongoing project and
if you especially if you're going to be
account managing or project managing it
then you need to
bringing it back to
agree clear deliverables with your
customer i.e we're going to have
we're going to have a discussion around
progress like every month from this date
and by this time you need to make sure
you give me
this so in our case we might say that we
need xyz piece of content for this seo
project we're doing for them um and if
we don't then we're going to see a
drop-off in results because this is a
major part of the monthly milestone we
need so they need to understand what
they need to deliver why they need to
deliver and the implications if they
don't
um so then when it gets to halfway
through the month and this could apply
to anything
um
you've got to say look we haven't made
the progress that we we wanted to
because you haven't held up your side of
the bargain
and if they're reasonable they're going
to say well look we'll try and get to
you as soon as possible apologies we'll
make sure that we'll kind of fix it up
next time but i think
just just being clear in your
communication really um is important and
just just setting
setting things down so the customer
knows what's expected of them and
likewise they know what you're gonna be
doing on your end so both deliverables
are fairly clear ongoing and if things
are going to change let them know
in advance and whether that's kind of
timelines creeping over or whatever it
may be the earlier you can let them know
then the softer the blow will be
yeah
there's a theme there's a theme coming
at m8 which is about upfront you know
pre-framing things you know from the
outset the very first conversation you
have to we're starting this project
these are things we're going to need to
do we should be dead clear about it
we're not trying to hide stuff
just being
obvious about it
and again it is it comes across it's
just very honest and it's just kind of
yeah that works and why would somebody
not want to work like that
yeah yeah exactly
so let's have a think about change then
so that's again another element of pq is
this comfort with change and then our
sales people we we we sell change we're
change agents
so
again what is what's you thinking around
that how do you manage that and
understand change
yeah so i mean i think if you bring it
back to a sales conversation then it's
it's important in the sense that
no people
people aren't going to go with your
product or service if they don't think
that it's going to add value to them
in terms of transitioning from
where they are now to where they want to
get to in in the future so
yeah being able to i guess painting the
picture um
so
what we often do is i suppose if if i
can give people actionable tips is to
make sure that everything you note down
in discovery in terms of where people
actually want to get to and say 12
months down the line is you've got a
clear note of that so if you do
if you are in the business of running
demos presentation pitches whatever
you've got a clear note of that you've
customized your proposal your demo your
pitch deck you're offering
to
be relevant to where they want to get to
in terms of your product so
when you're running through a recap of
their goals and then when you're running
through the customized selection of how
your specific offer can help them you're
saying look this feature is going to be
really good because you said you wanted
to be able to i don't know let's bring
it to a crm you said you wanted to be
able to
run reports in in just a minute and you
wanted to be able to see your sales
predictions and sales
forecasts and all in one clear dashboard
so this tackles that issue it also means
you're not going to have to send each
individual sales rep because they're all
linked in to their gmail accounts um and
you can feature that because you said
that was really important because you're
wasting a lot of time with manual entry
and manual reports and all that's good
stuff so if you can tie tie that in and
show how you're making change
i guess that's always one of the most
impactful ways of doing it
yeah so tie it back and show why are you
doing it how it's impacting it's kind of
what you wanted that's why we're doing
that yeah and just respecting the people
do
we we find change difficult
but if you're kind of almost sweetening
it and saying but this is why this is
where we're going to go and have this
kind of this you know towards uh
motivation
hopefully that'll help them somewhat in
the uncomfortable bit of yeah we're
gonna go through this this icky period
yeah but look at what it's gonna be like
yeah and another
i mean one of my one of my favorite
things when you're doing i know i'm
talking a lot about presentations but
that's because i run quite a lot
so sandler i love sandler training and
they did a really good i can't remember
what was called but it's something like
how to run a sales presentation and
throughout each step of your
presentation because again if you're
doing a sales presentation you want to
do an upfront contract at the start i.e
saying look do you still have 30 minutes
do we have everyone we agreed need to be
involved in the presentation we're going
to run through your goals we're going to
roll through our recommended solution
we're going to run through time frames
deliverables commercials and then at the
end i'm going to ask you if it makes
sense to move forwards or if you feel at
any stage it doesn't make sense let me
know let me partner with friends
um so where am i getting to i forgot
where i was what was my what were we
talking about before just about change
and how we're trying to make it by
setting out what the future is going to
be yeah um a way of helping manage
change and being dead clear so as you go
through but you've given us a really
good way of introducing your
presentation mate but yeah
we can just use that little clip i'll
just use that upfront contract again um
but yeah my point is hopefully each
section of your plan your pitch or demo
is kind of showing how
you're going to make bring the change
that they want to the table with your
offering um so as you're going through
each part and as you cross off let's say
a recap of their goals you ask them
do you believe that this is going to
help you um or are you comfortable
that
this is going to attack xyz or this is
going to attack this issue or how that's
going to help you if they say yes great
are you comfortable 100
if they say anything less than 100 you
say well what do you need to see exactly
to feel 100 comfortable and then they're
going to walk you through exactly what
they want to see and if you can get by
in each stage and then you might recap
their solution you might show them your
software
if you can get that 100 buy in each
stage you know they're probably going to
say yes agree to move forward whereas if
they don't you've got the chance at each
segment of your off of your pitch to
walk through what they need to see
basically there's a long-winded way of
saying it no no no but you gave context
behind it which is what first it's a
longer form podcast mate okay we're good
we're good
um
no and okay it does lead us into that
the last the last section of pq which is
about having this future orientation and
that's
what you've been talking about almost
all the way through it's like so having
the upfront contract and this is where
we're going to go
even in that last little section you're
saying look that's what we're trying to
achieve that's where we're going
so yeah i think you're on a bigger
picture having this future orientation
how can sales people
benefit from bringing that into the yeah
into play
yeah yeah yeah i guess there's a lot of
there's a lot of ways i could go with
that um
i suppose one of the biggest things is
again i'm just talking from my mistakes
is thinking that every
not every deal is a good deal
so
what i mean by that is just because
marketing have passed your lead or just
because you've generated lead from cold
calling wherever it's come from doesn't
mean it's going to be a sell so thinking
bigger picture um
because most of the time if you sell a
bad deal i you cut it too short in terms
of budget or you try and over deliver
it's going to come and bite you back in
the ass trust me i've been there many
times so thinking more
is this going to be a good deal because
our products are good fit because
they've got problems we've solved
they've got a realistic time frame
they've got a realistic budget they've
also got the ability to bring in the
decision makers the other people in the
organization that make sense to be
involved in the process
thinking bigger picture in terms of that
because that's going to serve you a lot
better because the chances are if all
those are a tick then yes they're
probably going to do business with you
and be a good customer longer term
um
so yeah thinking thinking about that
from future sense is is always good
that's probably one of my biggest
biggest pointers
okay no
and a very very good one again really
good and
the beauty is you're these are genuine
because you'll say i've been there
seeing it done it or been there seen it
not done it
not fun being there seeing it and doing
it now
much more fun
yeah
life's a lot happier when we do this
stuff right definitely learn from my
mistakes learn the hard jobs and
hopefully people listen to this and
aren't going to some won't believe you
they'll go on to do it and they go yeah
that sounds right
no they're really cool
um
i've got another question for you
actually
bit bit different bit bit off script
um
we're allowed to travel now
right so you and i we're gonna go and
we're gonna get on a plane
and we're gonna go somewhere to do some
good i don't even have to do sales or
marketing or business world we're gonna
do some good generally in a part of the
world yeah without with our own fair
hands should we get hands dirty
where should we go and why should we go
to asia should we go to africa or should
we go to latin america
i think i would probably choose africa
mainly because
it's probably from a helpful and a
selfish point is this just a general
question as in just a general question
yeah you'll see what i'm asking to say i
think yeah i think i'd pick there um in
the sense i'd like to do some if i could
take a a month or so i'll go with
the misses and and if we could bring a
little one along and do some do some
charity work help some people put put
together houses whether that was
maybe some communication work in the
schools or whatever good we could do i
think that'll be an awesome experience
and at the same time we we love
traveling anyway so it'd be awesome to
go over there and see sites and if you
can do some good at the same time that
that'd be pretty epic
cool well we can't do that quite yet but
what i am going to do is to say thank
you for giving your time and sharing
such sort of stories with us uh i'm part
of b1g1 i'm a member of that which is
business for good which is a really cool
way for having impact in part of the
world
um or different parts of the world based
on the sustainable development goals the
un's sustainable development goals um
so
i will
on our behalf on your behalf my behalf
put a uh put put donation in to do some
kind of good with uh with a project over
in africa um and i'll look to see if on
their website they've got something
about house building
and maybe we'll get over there at some
stage and i'll be able to do it with
their hands awesome
donation too
how cool i said you'd be on g1 it's a
really valuable thing
so mate thank you so much um
how can people get in touch with you
because you've
very certainly actually wasn't even
subtle at all talked about no some of
the good stuff that you can do and i
know you do good stuff and you do
deliver results and just have a
discovery call with you'll be great
how can we get in touch with you um
where can we find you yeah unfortunately
i can only relate myself stories back to
myself really or other people i've
stolen tips from on on the podcast but
yeah i mean if you're probably not
you're probably just looking for sales
tips but if you are
in a perhaps you run a business perhaps
you're involved in marketing a business
or perhaps you support your marketing
team and perhaps you're feeling
frustrated that your website is is
failing to generate a steady flow of
sales leads or every time you search
your product on service or on google
you'll know where to be seen you always
see your competitors ahead of you so if
you're getting any of those problems
with your google rankings or your
website failing to produce results give
us a shout it's
webchoiceuk.com and we'd love to chat to
you otherwise if you want to check out
my podcast after you've checked out
fred's it's a business growth show and
we get business leaders on and i also do
solo podcasts and we basically provide
actionable tips across marketing and
sales to grow your business business
growth show
yeah we'll pop a couple of links in the
in the note we'll put a link is it
episode 98 99
something like that i think i just
missed out on it did you i was gutted
[Laughter]
no will put your thing now you do do a
load of good stuff and the joker party
is good i think about 50 of those are
pretty much sales podcasts anyway yeah
and a sales person to have an idea of
marketing and other stuff that's going
on does no harm whatsoever
yeah i agree completely even learning
how to deliver a nice little pitch like
that when put on the spot
like you just did because that was
really cool mate you know um practice i
know it was because that's how it works
better when you know what you're going
to say when you give an opportunity to
do it like that
so look you're teaching us right to the
very end really appreciate that
cheers man appreciate you having me on
that pleasure